Our next service is AWS CodeStar, which,
if we remember from before,
is a service that can create entire applications and
continuous delivery chains automatically.
CodeStar has an easy‑to‑use user interface where you can provision all
the resources required for an entire application.
CodeStar has templates for various project types and programming
languages that can be used to quickly provision entire stacks with
their appropriate software configurations based on the application
type you're developing.
When CodeStar scaffolds out entire application stacks,
it automatically creates a continuous delivery toolchain along with it.
CodePipeline continuous delivery systems,
just like the one we just showed, can be automatically created for
you when you use CodeStar to create a project.
One primary benefit of CodeStar is that it takes away the overhead of
actually creating your continuous delivery toolchains.
And in just a few clicks, you could have an entire application created
with the continuous delivery toolchain set up for you.
Cloud9 is often used for CodeStar projects to write,
run, and debug the code for the project you're creating. It's a wicked fast
and easy way to provision entire applications by using CodeStar to scaffold
out all the resources and the continuous delivery pipeline for you, and then
using Cloud9 in your browser to read,
write, and debug the code for the solution you're creating.
Let's take a quick look at how CodeStar and Cloud9
integrate together within AWS. In AWS,
you use the AWS console to access CodeStar.
From there, you can create a new project,
and CodeStar will automatically provision computer resources and an
entire CodePipeline continuous delivery chain.
For simplicity's sake, I'm only using the CodePipeline logo here.
However,
everything from our CodePipeline diagram before is basically
encapsulated inside CodePipeline here so that you can imagine there
really is a lot of work that CodeStar is doing for you.
Once CodeStar has created a project for you,
you can then use the Cloud9 IDE to write and update
code for your CodeStar application.
It can be a little difficult at first to understand the differences between
CodeStar and Lightsail. If I were to try to explain it in short,
Lightsail deploys virtual private servers with
preconfigured applications, such as WordPress,
whereas CodeStar is a central hub that manages many
interconnected AWS services, all the way from writing code
to automatically deploying your code.
In many respects, Lightsail is just a simplified version of EC2,
whereas CodeStar is a simplified version of
integration between many AWS services.
A good rule of thumb I like to use when choosing between these two services is
that if I already have my code, or want a low code solution,
I typically choose Lightsail.
However,
if I want to develop something fairly advanced that leverages many AWS services, I often lean more towards using CodeStar.